{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\htmautsp\deff2{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}\loch\hich\dbch\pard\plain\ltrpar\itap0{\lang1033\fs18\f2\cf0 \cf0\ql{\f2 {\ltrch Prince Charles, born in 1948, prince of Wales and heir apparent to the throne of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. He is the son of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband, Philip Mountbatten, duke of Edinburgh. Charles\rquote s full name is Charles Philip Arthur George. His titles, in addition to prince of Wales, are duke of Cornwall; duke of Rothesay; earl of Carrick; and Baron Renfrew, lord of the Isles and great steward of Scotland.}\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 \li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch Breaking with the tradition of educating royal children at home, his parents enrolled Prince Charles in private schools in England and Scotland. He attended the Cheam School in Berkshire as a boarder from the age of 9 to 14 and the school his father attended, Gordonstoun, in Scotland from age 14 to 18. He has described his school years as unhappy and seems to have been especially ill-suited for the rugged and spartan conditions at Gordonstoun, the school chosen by the Duke of Edinburgh to toughen up his son. After Gordonstoun, Charles entered Trinity College at the University of Cambridge, where he studied archaeology, anthropology, and history.}\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 \li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch Charles became the first heir to the British crown to earn a university degree when he graduated with honors from Cambridge University in June 1970. That year he also assumed his seat in the House of Lords, the upper chamber of the British Parliament. At the age of 20, in 1969, he was formally invested as the Prince of Wales, a title he had been given in 1958.}\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 \li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch Charles served in the Royal Air Force and the Royal Navy from 1971 to 1977. Although he has traveled widely as a representative of the crown, Charles has been viewed as a man with little to do while waiting to succeed to the throne. As one solution he founded the Prince\rquote s Trust, an organization established to provide opportunities for young people through training, education, and financial support. As its president he has remained closely involved with the trust. Charles is also involved with some 200 other charitable organizations that reflect his wide range of interests, from architecture to alternative medicine and conservation. }\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch }\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\fs24\f0 {\fs19\ltrch "Prince Charles," Microsoft\'ae Encarta\'ae Online Encyclopedia 2007}{\ltrch {\fs19 }\line }{\fs19\ltrch http://encarta.msn.com \'a9 1997-2007 Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved.}\li0\ri0\sa100\sb100\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch }\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
}
}