{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\htmautsp\deff2{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}\loch\hich\dbch\pard\plain\ltrpar\itap0{\lang1033\fs18\f2\cf0 \cf0\ql{\f2 {\ltrch Elizabeth II, born in 1926, queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Elizabeth Alexandra Mary was born in London, the first child of the duke and duchess of York, later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth. Her sister, Princess Margaret, was born in 1930.}\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 \li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch The two princesses were educated at home by a Scottish governess. After her father succeeded to the throne in 1936, Princess Elizabeth, as heiress presumptive, began studies in constitutional history and law to prepare for her future position as queen. As she became older, Elizabeth began to take part in public life. She was 14 years old when she made her first radio broadcast, a speech to the children of the Commonwealth of Nations in October 1940. When she was 16 she carried out her first public engagement, an inspection of the Grenadier Guards in April 1942.}\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 \li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch During World War II (1939-1945) Elizabeth and her younger sister were sent for safety from Buckingham Palace in London to live first at Balmoral, Scotland, and later at the royal lodge at Windsor, England. Although her father did not want Elizabeth to be called up for national service during the war, she herself was most eager to join the Auxiliary Territorial Service, the women\rquote s branch of the British Army. She was finally allowed to join in March 1945.}\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 \li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch On November 20, 1947, Elizabeth married Philip Mountbatten, the former Prince Philip of Greece, at Westminster Abbey in London. He had become a British subject nine months earlier and was married under the title of Prince Philip, duke of Edinburgh. A year later Elizabeth gave birth to a son, Charles. In 1950 she gave birth to a daughter, Anne. A second son, Andrew, was born to Elizabeth in 1960, and a third, Edward, in 1964.}\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f2 {\ltrch }\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
{\f0 {\fs19\ltrch "Elizabeth II," Microsoft\'ae Encarta\'ae Online Encyclopedia 2007}{\fs24\ltrch {\fs19 }\line }{\fs19\ltrch http://encarta.msn.com \'a9 1997-2007 Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved.}\li0\ri0\sa0\sb0\fi0\ql\par}
}
}